Previously on When Calls the Heart.
- Fiona!
- I had no idea.
I'll be spending a good
portion of the weekend
working on my novel.
You sound inspired.
Thank you again for your help.
The best writing comes
straight from the heart.
So what's in your heart?
Allie?
You are the spittin'
image of your mother.
Grandpa?
I want to get to know him.
You are under arrest for
suspicion of robbery
- in Benson Hills.
- Maybe he's changed.
No, he hasn't.
Life is a journey, defined
not by a destination,
but by the company we keep.
I am lucky enough to have
the most amazing little man
with whom I share my
most precious moments.
And wonderful friends who
help me along the way.
There are those who challenge
me when I need it most.
And others whose life
challenges require my support.
Through it all I will never
forget to appreciate
the little moments that
come and go so quickly.
Because in fact there is
nothing little about them.
They will always form a
very big part of who I am.
Thank you.
[SMALL GASP]
Scalpel, doctor?
[LAUGHS]
Very funny.
You should start getting used to that.
Carson, I haven't even spoken
to the medical school yet.
But you have to admit,
it's pretty exciting.
Ooooh! It's all I've
been thinking about!
I had this dream last night.
It's the one where you're taking an exam
for a class you've never been to before.
Have you had one like that?
Nope.
I had them all the time
in nursing school.
I think it's a good sign.
You're not going to say a word to me?
What do you want me to say?
I'm proud of my father.
I didn't steal that necklace.
There were witnesses.
Well, they're wrong, I'm telling you.
I got that money from collecting
on a debt from an old friend.
Well case closed then.
I didn't steal anything.
I promise you.
I'm done with your promises.
Has anyone seen my purse?
It was here somewhere.
Uh, look at this!
Where's the purse?
- Is that mommy's purse?
- Uh-oh.
Is that mommy's purse?
- Thank you.
- You're welcome.
I think we have a little bandit.
He loves snaps and buttons right now.
He could play with them for hours.
You're a little bandit.
I'm sorry that I'm holding you up.
No, not at all.
We have plenty of time.
[BABY COOS]
Oh, I heard you early this
morning typing away furiously.
Sorry, I hope it doesn't bother you.
No, no, not at all.
Creativity only inspires.
- Hmm-mm.
- [KNOCKING]
Who's at the door?
Allie?
What are you doing here?
Can I stay here?
I can't live with Uncle Nathan anymore.
♪
- Synced and corrected by martythecrazy -
- www.addic7ed.com -
Allie, what happened?
I can't stay at our house.
Is this about your grandpa?
Does your uncle know you are here?
He would have just tried to stop me.
Well, I think we need to
have a little chat with him.
I'm not talking to him right now.
Maybe he could explain.
He doesn't listen, especially
when it comes to grandpa.
He won't even let me see him.
Why don't you go to church with Mr.
And Mrs. Coulter
and little Jack.
I'll talk to your uncle
and be right along.
Yeah.
It will be fun.
We'll take the long way around the pond.
I'll meet you there.
Come on, Allie.
We're going to go to church now.
[CHURCH BELLS TOLLING]
Kevin.
I wanted to ask you if
you'd be a groomsman.
Take some time to think about it.
What's to think about? I'm honoured.
Great. So you'll do it?
Of course.
Do what?
Um... We were just talking
about the wedding.
Oh, good.
You're coming, Kevin?
Wouldn't miss it.
I can add you to the list.
Don't worry, I'll put
you at a good table.
Actually, you'll have to
put him at the best table.
I just asked him to be a groomsman.
Great.
Welcome aboard.
I'm excited.
We agreed Rosemary is
my matron of honour.
Lee is your best man.
Nice and simple.
Kevin hired me when I
needed that extra money.
He's been a good friend to me.
Jesse, we talked about this.
Now are numbers won't match.
Service is starting soon.
Better save some seats.
I love you.
- Good morning.
What brings you hear?
[WHISPERS] Allie.
What? Is everything ok?
She just showed up at my
house with her suitcase.
[SIGHS]
Come on.
Where is she now?
At church with Lee and Rosemary.
I'm sorry she's dragging you into this.
She has a tendency to
overreact sometimes.
This isn't the first
time she's done this?
No. Check her suitcase.
I'm sure it's empty.
I did. It isn't.
Okay, um, I'll talk to her after church.
Are you going? 'Cause I could walk you.
Great.
She's just very confused Nathan.
Yes, I know.
I shouldn't have never let
him stay in Hope Valley.
- [PIANO]
- ♪
Oh, I know, Clara asked me to
handle the floral arrangements.
I'm thinking buttercups and hydrangeas.
Jesse asked me to be an usher.
Wonderful.
Bill, what will you be doing?
Sh, sh, sh, we're in church.
Did I tell you that we're
having an outdoor wedding.
Yes, It's going to be so beautiful.
I'll have to think of
something for you to do.
Oh, my goodness, I'd
love to help, anything.
- Anything, anything.
- I'd absolutely love that.
Hello?
Who's there?
- There's your mama.
Hello sweet boy.
Welcome everyone...
Bill, can I ask you a favour?
Of course.
My father... I was hoping
that you could question him.
I would do it but...
No, no, no. He's family say no more.
I'll handle it.
Anything I should know?
Yeah, he's a pretty good liar.
Years of practise, I guess.
I could take out another
book, that would work.
- Yeah.
- Yes.
I'll stop by the library later.
Excuse me, Allie.
Hmm-mm.
So, I hear you're moving out.
That's right.
You can't live with Mrs. Thornton.
She didn't say no.
But I did.
Fine, but can I at least see grandpa?
Allie, I just don't think
that's a good idea right now.
Of course you don't.
Allie, Allie!
Let's go somewhere else.
This can't be easy for her.
Yeah, I know first-hand it isn't.
Do you really think he
stole that necklace?
That's the thing about criminals,
they usually don't stop.
What?
Nothing.
No, what is it?
[SIGHS]
What if this time he's innocent?
The Mounties at Benson Hills had
enough to put a warrant out.
Right. But does that mean he did it?
He was throwing money
around at the saloon.
Right. But you said he
had an explanation.
He always has an explanation.
Look, it is none of my business
but what if this time he
really is telling the truth?
I talked to Pastor Simon.
He is going to be in Union City
the weekend of the wedding.
Ohh...
Why would it be so hard to
find a pastor in this town.
Well, don't you two worry,
we will find you somebody.
Now, what else is on your list, Clara.
Oh, let's see...
Oh, I need to make another suit
because someone asked
Kevin to be a groomsman
without talking to me.
Kevin, you asked Kevin.
That's great, love Kevin.
Lee.
I mean, you should have asked.
Probably.
Kevin, I'm going to stop by
your shop in a few minutes.
My shop?
Yes, I need something made.
Well, I'm happy to help.
First thing tomorrow morning.
Tomorrow?
Oh, right.
I forget sometimes that people
have regular work hours.
At the telephone company
we're open seven days.
Florence is working now,
I'll be working later.
I guess I could make an exception.
Is it an emergency?
If you like having phone service.
So, this friend of yours,
the one that you lent the
money to, what's his name?
Edmonds, Donny Edmonds.
Where is he now?
[MUMBLES] I don't know.
I think he left town.
You don't sound sure about that.
Well, I didn't watch him leave,
if that's what you're asking.
Any idea where he went?
He didn't say.
How do you two know each other?
Well, life sometimes
brings people together.
It's been years.
Well, you just got out of prison.
It seems odd he would owe you money.
Like I said, it's been years.
What did he borrow the money for?
What we all need it for, to survive.
Allie, do you want to talk about it?
I know you're upset
about your grandfather.
He seems like a nice man.
Yes, he does.
He knows stories about my mom
that even Uncle Nathan doesn't know.
Do you think he's telling the truth?
I really don't know.
But I hope so.
He bought a couple of rounds
made quite a few friends that night.
How much money was he flashing around.
Couldn't say.
It was quite a bit.
Is there anything else
you could tell me.
He was a friendly guy.
Played darts for a while.
He stayed late.
Any cards?
No.
I'm sorry that your dad is in trouble.
Can't be easy.
I'm used to it.
Oh, hi.
I need 34 of these doo-hickeys
made a little bit longer
so they're about an inch long.
Doo-hickey?
I don't know what they're
called but I know what they do.
The back of my switchboard
is full of them
and lately my connections
have been spotty.
The longer one of these will fix that.
Got it.
"A modern woman connecting the world."
Excuse me?
It's what the magazine
article said about you.
Oh, some of that was
exaggerated by the writer,
sort of embarrassing.
It shouldn't be.
You should be proud of yourself.
We all are.
I can have these ready
in about three days.
Thanks.
How did it go?
He swears he didn't take that necklace.
Yeah, I know.
He ever done something like this before?
Petty theft, here and there.
It seems like he's hiding something.
I got the same feeling.
I'm heading to Benson Hills.
Nathan... the Mounties in Benson Hills
are handling this investigation.
I know.
But I need to see for myself.
I know what will make you feel better...
how about an ice cream?
Can I have a double scoop?
You can have a triple scoop.
I'll meet you inside.
Hello.
Hi.
So, how is the writing coming along?
I have already written a few chapters.
Well, you work fast.
Anything you want to share?
I'm not sure it's quite ready yet.
Sooner or later you're going
to have to show somebody
unless you want to keep it hidden
in your desk drawer forever.
But I have read your work before.
Alright. But remember it is
still a work in progress.
I won't forget.
Why don't you drop the
pages by at the saloon?
I will.
Okay.
How's the writing going?
It's coming along.
That's good.
I'm heading to Benson Hills for...
to see about the stolen necklace?
Yes. I should be gone
for about a day or two.
I was wondering if, um...
I would be happy to look after Allie.
Are you sure?
We'll bake cookies and play games.
It will be fun.
You know she just has
such an ease around you.
I just... She really needs
us right now so thank you.
Of course.
I think Little Jack is finally down.
Oh, that's so beautiful.
Our old house.
Where I lived with my mom.
It looks very cozy.
I remember the house,
but not much of her.
I wish I knew her better.
I was only four when...
I know.
Life doesn't always seem fair, does it?
That's why I'd like to talk to grandpa.
He has stories about her.
I wish Uncle Nathan would understand.
Oh, Allie, your uncle
really cares about you.
He's just... he's just
trying to protect you.
If he cared about me
he'd let me see grandpa.
You know, every time I
see your uncle in town,
he's always talking about you?
He is?
To everyone.
About how proud he is of you
and all of the amazing things
that you are going to
accomplish in your life.
About how you make him laugh.
He talks about you a lot too.
Really?
What... what does he say?
[BABY JACK CRYING]
Excuse me.
I have Dr. Atwater at the
University in Union City.
I'll put him through.
Thank you, Fiona.
[PHONE RINGS]
Hello, Dr. Atwater,
this is Faith Carter.
Ms. Carter, Carson Shepherd
spoke highly of you.
How are you?
I'm fine, thank you.
I hope you don't mind but I
telephoned the nursing school
you attended and they confirmed
the course work you've
already completed.
So far as I can tell, you only
have two requisite courses
to take before being eligible
to train as a doctor.
Medical Pathology and
Foundations of Medicine.
That's wonderful news.
And I can take both at your university.
Yes, and after you complete them,
you can begin training under
a qualified physician.
I can start right away.
The next sitting of Medical
Pathology starts next week,
but unfortunately the class is full.
I see. How soon can I
next take the class?
It's only offered once per year.
Once per year?
Shall I pencil you in?
Uh... Yes, next year.
Thank you so much, doctor.
I'm looking for a Donny Edmonds.
I don't have any quests registered
under the name of Donny Edmonds.
Did you try the other hotel?
Yes, he wasn't registered there either.
Thank you.
Anything?
I got a file on this Edmonds.
Got a record.
You could say that.
Why wouldn't Archie mention this?
Honour amongst thieves.
Sorry.
So what do you have on my father?
Well, I have a witness who says
he saw him on the third floor
near where the robbery took place.
So?
Your father's room is
on the second floor.
Were you motivated by the fact
that my father was an ex-con?
Look, I understand why you'd
want to believe your father.
I'm just trying to figure
out if he actually did it.
How much money was on him
when he was arrested?
About $150.
The necklace stolen out of that
room could fetch close to that.
Between being identified
near the scene of the crime,
his pattern of criminal activity,
and the large sum of money found on him,
there is enough
circumstantial evidence here
for this charge to stick.
He says he got this money
from this Edmonds.
But the clerk says there
is no Edmonds registered.
What does that tell you?
Keep digging.
Maybe he went by another name.
What is his known aliases?
Uh, excuse me.
Did a Harvey Butler stay
here about a week ago?
Yes, Harvey Butler checked
out a couple of days ago.
What floor was he on?
Third.
I showed Edmonds photograph around
two people said that they recognized him
but hadn't seen him in a couple of days.
One said that he might have
left town in a buckboard wagon.
Could be anywhere by now.
Travelling by wagon?
He can't be that far.
If you stole that necklace where
is the first place you would go?
Is there a pawn shop in town?
No.
Town council won't allow it.
There is one in Buxton.
Wire headquarters and the
Buxton Mountie Office.
I'm going after him.
Allie, you should probably decide on one
or we'll be late for school.
Maybe you should ask her now.
[WHISPERING]
No, no.
Am I interrupting something?
No, no. Not at all.
Well, Clara was going to ask you...
The wedding is coming up and
I have been thinking...
Rosemary is my matron of honour
and you have always been such a
good friend so I want you...
We want you to be our bridesmaid!!!
Will you do it?
Clara, of course I will.
[LAUGHTER]
Mrs. Thornton...
Before you even ask you know
what the answer will be.
So just remember to keep
that wrist elevated.
It's not that long.
A year?
What if the admission rules change?
It will happen.
You just have to be patient.
It's lunch time.
Come with me.
Giddy up!
Let's go, boy.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
So is this your way of taking
my mind off of things?
Is it working?
On the bright side we'll
be together another year.
Wait here.
Carson, what are you doing?
You'll see.
I hope this works, I've
never done this before.
Wait, you can take a
photograph of yourself?
Apparently so.
What will they think of next.
Enjoy.
Clara!
Oh.
What have you got there?
So, I come from a big family.
I've been to my fair share of weddings.
My sister Paula got
married two summers ago.
The decorations were gorgeous.
Anyway, I had a friend send
me these bridal magazines
from San Francisco.
There's some amazing
decoration ideas in here.
I thought you'd like to see.
Oh, that is beautiful.
And there is so much more.
Thank you so much.
This is really very kind.
You didn't have to do this.
Your wedding is a big deal.
Anything you need, I'm here.
This baby's breath is beautiful.
I think this could work so well.
[CHILDREN LAUGHING AND CHATTING]
[BELL RINGING]
I hope you all had a good lunch.
Come on inside.
It's time for arithmetic.
Don't look too excited.
Has anyone seen Allie?
No, I haven't seen her.
Opal, have you seen Allie?
Opal?
I'm not supposed to tell.
She was the most beautiful little girl
but she was a handful, let me tell you.
What did she do?
Well, she used to hide up on the roof
when she was supposed
to do her homework.
Oh, and there was the time
she let all of our hogs
out of the pen.
Why did she do that?
She wanted to give them
a bath in the creek.
[LAUGHS]
Oh, even your laugh sounds like hers.
I'm sorry you didn't get more
time with her, sweetheart.
The two of you would have
been two peas in a pod.
Tell me another story, grandpa.
Oh, well, let me see. How
much time do you have?
Allie, what are you doing here?
I just wanted to talk to grandpa.
Outside.
Allie!
Allie, I told you, you couldn't
go in there without your uncle.
I just wanted to talk to him.
Well, I understand that but your
Uncle Nathan makes the rules.
Now, come on, we've got
to get back to school.
I don't have much family.
It's just me and my Uncle Nathan.
And now grandpa's here.
He says I laugh like my mom.
I'm sure you get a lot
of things from your mom.
What if Uncle Nathan can't help him?
I just met him and what
if I never see him again.
If your grandfather is innocent,
your uncle won't let that happen.
Come on.
Developer, stop bath, fixer.
And maybe a few trays.
Certainly.
How long have you been
dabbling in photography.
Just getting started.
There's a lot to learn.
- Dr. Shepherd?
- Yes.
Did you say you were
interested in photography?
Well, I'm giving it a try, yes.
[WHISPERING] You should ask him.
Ask him what?
Every wedding needs a photographer,
what do you say?
Really?
If it's an imposition...
Not at all. It would be my pleasure.
Donny Edmonds?
Or do you go by Harvey
Butler these days?
I want that diamond
necklace that you took
from the hotel room in Benson Hills.
What makes you think that I stole it?
There's two suspects,
Archie Grant and you?
I'm guessing it's you.
You wouldn't be his son, would ya?
Archie and I were cell mates for years.
He always talked about
his son, the Mountie.
Had a picture of you and
your sister near his bunk.
He was awful proud of you two.
Yeah.
I paid an old debt to your dad.
I was a little short on cash and...
So you just planned on
replenishing your reserves
by stealing this?
You wouldn't consider letting
an old family friend off
with a warning, would ya?
No.
[LAUGHING TO HIMSELF]
I see you're reading.
You have quite the way with words.
So you are enjoying the chapters?
I am.
Your protagonist is very strong
and also very vulnerable.
I think we all feel that way sometimes.
And you write Elsa's
son with so much heart
and so much passion.
That's you shining through.
And, I'm especially intrigued
by this new character,
Luther Brant.
Oh.
The handsome charming restauranteur
with a pension for cards and travel.
I gotta say I'm rooting for him.
Well, that is what you want as a writer?
Who's your inspiration
for that character?
Oh, I just made him up.
Really?
Oh, you didn't think that you...
No, no, no of course not.
Well, I suggest you keep reading.
Okay.
Okay, great, with your hand on your hip.
Yes, and just turn to
your left a little bit.
Yeah. Yes.
How many photographs are
you going to take of me?
I have never seen a
more beautiful model.
Did you just actually say that?
Faith! A call for you.
Union City.
Mmm.
- Thanks for the sandwich.
- [GIGGLES]
Well, you've been working so hard
I thought I'd bring you lunch.
Awe, you're the best.
So did you talk to Elizabeth?
She said yes.
Great. Now we're even.
I wanted to apologize.
For what?
For getting upset when you asked Kevin.
Oh, yeah?
I mean, plans are meant
to be broken, right?
We should be able to ask
whoever we want to be part of
our wedding party without the
other person getting upset.
Who else did you ask to be a bridesmaid?
Fiona.
She's been a good friend.
It just happened.
Clara, we talked about this
now our numbers don't match.
Jesse!
I'm kidding.
The more the merrier.
I'll just have to find
another groomsman.
Yes, you will.
Have a good day.
Thanks.
Hello, Dr. Atwater.
Miss Carter, I have good news.
I spoke with the Registrar
[STATIC] at the University of Chi...
I'm sorry, Dr. Atwater.
Could you repeat that.
I said, I spoke with the Registrar
at the University of Chicago and
they've agreed to enrol you
in the upcoming semester.
Are you still interested?
Of course I'm still interested.
But Chicago, that's far away.
It is.
But at least you'd begin right away.
The sooner you complete
your course work,
the sooner you can begin your training.
Can I have some time to think about it?
They are making room for
you as a favour to me.
Ms. Carter I'd need to know by tomorrow.
Of course. Thank you, Dr. Atwater.
Chicago?
It's thinning out.
How are they liking the flank steak?
No one sent it back.
Ah, a ringing endorsement.
So?
All taken care of.
Hickam said he'd do it.
Do what?
He's going to be one of my groomsmen.
Oh, well good.
And I spoke to Kurt Lawson
who'd be the second usher.
I've talked to Bertha and Nancy,
they're going to handle the
decorations for the reception.
Who's building the arbour because...
Richard Wolf already
showed me the design.
Constable Grant will be helping him
and Lee is supplying the lumber.
It's going to be beautiful.
Wow, this is really coming together.
It is.
I was beginning to think
you were avoiding me.
I found Donny Edmonds.
Oh?
You were cell mates.
Perhaps you forget that little detail?
Ancient history.
Doesn't reflect well on you.
Makes it seems like you're
trying to protect him.
He's had a rough life,
you can't even imagine.
So this is what happens
to people like us,
once you have a record.
He's the one that stole the necklace.
He's in Buxton jail as we speak.
The eyewitness confirmed
that it was Donny
that he saw at the scene
of the crime, not you.
I never would have let him pay me back
if I had known he was going
to steal that necklace.
Criminals commit crimes,
it's what they do.
Growing up with a father like
me and doing what you do now,
I imagine it's hard enough,
but people can change, son.
If they are strong enough and
motivated to do the right thing
for the people they love.
Why don't you go across the street
and see if your room is still available?
Ma'am.
He didn't do it.
He did not.
Thank you.
There's no need I'm just so
happy it worked out this way.
I spend so many years
being angry at him.
He made some terrible decisions
but it is clear he loves you,
and I can tell you love him too.
He needs his family now
more than ever, Nathan.
There's a lot to think
about, isn't there?
Yeah.
I wanted to give you this.
What is it?
That is my old anatomy
book from college.
It brought me a lot of luck so hopefully
it will bring you some good luck too.
Oh, Carson.
I haven't even decided
if I'm going to go yet.
Faith, this is a big opportunity.
Sometimes in life we're
presented with a choice
where the right decision
is to take the risk.
And this is one of
those times, isn't it?
It is.
You'll visit?
Of course I will.
I'm going to Chicago in a week!
- Good day, Ned.
- Good day.
Hello Elizabeth.
Hi Lucas!
Uh-oh.
And hello, young man.
What are you looking for?
Humble pie.
I am hoping Ned has some in stock.
You finished reading the chapters.
I did.
And what did you think?
Well, Luther, aside from being a
handsome charming restauranteur,
who enjoys a game of cards
is also a widower with a young daughter
and he once worked as a Pinkerton.
A man of many talents.
Indeed.
I'll remember.
It is just fiction.
[KNOCKING]
Slow day?
Don't let this book fool you.
Here are your doo-hickeys.
Great. How much will it be?
$3.20.
So I heard you're going
to be a bridesmaid.
That's right.
Did you know I am going
to be a groomsman?
Clara mentioned it.
You know I've never
been a groomsman before
so I'm not exactly sure as to
what it is to be expected.
Have you ever stood around before?
Yeah.
Then you will do great.
[LAUGHS]
There you go.
Thanks.
Bill?
Hey, I found the perfect
recipe for a wedding cake!
Lucas is handling the cake.
Lucas! He can't bake!
He's using Gustave.
- Oh, yeah, Gustave.
- Bill.
Well, let me handle the food then?
Lucas is handling all of the food.
But why him? I'll do it for free.
Bill! You are going to be far too busy.
Well, how's that?
Because you're going to be
walking me down the aisle.
You're the closest thing
that I have to a father.
[TEARS UP]
Say yes, so that I can
cross it off my list.
Ah, I should make my move
while there is still light.
You don't have to leave so soon.
I wish I could stay, sweetheart.
But a friend of mine is holding
a job for me up north.
It's time for grandpa to make
a better life for himself.
I'm glad you came.
So am I, sweetheart.
I have something for you.
I had some time last night
and I know how you love
stories about your mom,
so I wrote a few.
I'll send more, if you want.
You promise.
I promise.
We'll stay in touch.
Oh, I made you a sandwich.
Thank you, sweetheart.
Why don't you put that in my saddle bag.
Take it easy on your uncle.
He loves you very much.
You know that, right?
Yeah, I know.
Well, it was good to see ya.
Hopefully the next time it will
be in different circumstances.
Take care of yourself.
Hey, Dad...
I just want to say that I'm sorry...
for everything.
You don't ever have to
apologize to me, son.
Come on, let's go.
Are we okay?
Yeah, we're good.
Good.
Oh, come on, let's go home then.
Unless of course you
want to spend the night
at Mrs. Thornton's.
Nah. She's great,
but little Jack, he's got some lungs.
[LAUGHS]
Thank you.
- Synced and corrected by martythecrazy -
- www.addic7ed.com -